# RTLCorrection
This document helps you to use this tool to correct an Buggy RTL design

## Description
The input to the tool is the Verilog file of the buggy RTL design, the input C description
of the design. The output will be the corrected RTL design that is similar to the buggy one. 

## Prequisities
1. You need to have LegUp (the open source high level synthesis tool) installed. 
   It is recommended to download the whole virtual box OS image of the LegUp from 
   http://legup.eecg.utoronto.ca/. 
   After opening the OS containing the LegUp or intalling the LegUp on Linux, you can see the 
   **legup-4.0** in your home folder.
2. You need to have Yosys (the open source verilog compiler) installed. After successful intallation,
   you can see the **yosys-master** folder in your home folder. 

## Explaining the repo structure
We call the path of this README.md file the root.
The other folders and pathes explained here are under the root. 

1. **genOCM folder**: It contains the main developement files. 
- *mainNode.h* and *mainNode.cpp* which implement the data structure for for both operations of 
  the CDFG (OPS) and resources of the RTL (RPS).
- *genOCM.h* and *genOCM.cpp* that implement the class that provide all the functions needed for
  creating Processig Subgraphs (PS). 
- *BipartiteWeightedMatchingBinding.h* and *BipartiteWeightedMatchingBinding.cpp* that are codes
  from LegUp itself, which are modified to fulfill our purposes. 

2. **editDotfil folder**: It contains a simple code and binary with the aim of modifying the .dot 
   file (the netlist outout of the Yosys tool).
    
3. **Matching folder**: It contains the matching algorithm and its binary based on hungrian matching
   method. This binary is used to find the final result. 

4. **other folder**: It Contains small scripts to run the whole tool

5. **runTest folder**: It contains the python script that forcasts the CPU time of a mutation based method. 

## How to make the toolchain ready 
Here we explain how to patch the LegUp and Yosys.
Before making the patches, make copy of the *legup-4.0* in the same path it is and rename it
to *original_legup*. The *original_legup* will be used to create the buggy verilog files. 

1. **Patch the legUp:**
-  Replace the **legup-4.0/examples/Makefile.common** with **other/makefile.common**
-  Copy the whole content of **other/genOCM** folder to the **legup-4.0/llvm/lib/Target/Verilog**
   Answer yes to the question about replacing files.
-  Run the make command to build the **LegUp**

2. **Patch the Yosys:**
-  Replace the *yosys-master/passes/cmds/show.cc* with the *other/show.cc*
-  run the make command to build to **Yosys**
-  Copy the *other/modify_verilog.sh* to *yosys-master*
-  Copy the *other/syn.ys* to *yosys-master*
-  Copy the *other/editfile* to *yosys-master*
-  Copy the *other/creat_final_netlist.sh* to *yosys-master*


## How to correct an RTL design
Here we explain the way you can correct a buggy RTL design. 
We take the *fir* design as an example here. 

1. To have buggy RTL design, we use *original_legup* to sythesize a buggy C code to a verilog code.
-  cd to *original_legup/examples/fir*
-  Make some changes in *fir.c* file to simulate the bug.
-  open the command window and run the *make* command. The *fir.v* file will be created as buggy RTL.

2. Make the netlist from *fir.v* using Yosys 
-  Copy the *original_legup/examples/fir/fir.v* file to the *yoysys-master*
-  cd to *yoysys-master* and and open terminal 
-  run the *modify_verilog.sh* with *fir.v* as argument; like *modify_verilog.sh fir.v*
   This command will modify the verilog file to be compatible to the verilog standard that is acceptable 
   by yosys.

-  Edit first line of the *yosys-master/syn.ys* to contain *fir.v* and last line to *show memory_controller*.
-  Run the *./yosys syn.ys* to create the hidden file named *.yosys_show.dot*. This is the netlist file 
   for the *memory_controller* module of the *fir.v*. The RTL generated by LegUp ususally have main and memory_controller modules. 
   If there was any RTL with more modules to should merge the functions of the input .c file to skip creating more modules.

-  Rename the *.yosys_show.dot* file to *memory_controller.dot*.
-  Edit last line of the *yosys-master/syn.ys* file to *show main*.
-  Run the *./yosys syn.ys* to create the hidden file named *.yosys_show.dot*.
-  Rename the *.yosys_show.dot* to *main.dot*
-  Run the *creat_final_netlist.sh* to create the final netlist files called *main.dot*, 
   *memory_controller.dot* and *total.dot*
-  Copy the 3 netlist files to the *legup-4.0/examples/fir* folder. They are inputs to the modified legUp
   that is our developed toolchain. 

3. Create the corrected RTL:
   Now we have netlist of the buggy RTL as input to the fir folder of our modified LegUp. 
-  


1- Modify the buggy RTL code to remove 

1- Reading output files of verilog parser (yosys) (the dot files)

2- reading the IR file (.LL) output of LLVM parser

3- considering resource and connections of original rtl (output of phase 1) 

The development is in progress ...
